people are asking so there are three
questions about reheating stuff in
nutrients okay so the first thing is a
year ago I did was like so I had heard
this stuff right like people and I like
Ayurvedic doctors will say like don't
use microwaves and so I was like okay is
there any data behind this st. John's
wort you have to be careful about for
sure especially because you can get
serotonin and overdoses if you're taking
regular antidepressants as well I don't
recommend really medical marijuana in
most cases
yeah your thumb stick if you take benzos
that's right so let's just talk about
reheating food for a second okay
no serotonin overdose doesn't lead to
burnout you're gonna [ __ ] start
shaking and like I don't think you can
have seizures but it can be really bad
like you're gonna have an elevated heart
rate you're gonna [ __ ] up reflexes
it's like really bad so we're gonna just
talk for a second about the reheating
food okay so a lot of these like
alternative medicine folks talk about
like eating freshly cooked food and
stuff like that like I personally think
that that has validity that's anecdotal
so about a year ago I sat down and I
tried to like understand like what
studies have been done about nutrients
and food and the best that I could find
is like most of the studies about
nutrients and reheated food actually
come from like the 1970s when microwave
started to become popular so when
microwaves became popular there were a
bunch of studies that were done on like
the nutrient impact of microwavable like
microwaves and reheating food on
nutrients the short answer is that these
studies basically found a minimal amount
of difference between microwaved food
and like a reheated food and other
things the problem is that they really
only looked at like macronutrient
components so they looked at like grams
of carbohydrate so what they did is they
took like let's say like a lasagna and
they like measured the amount of grams
of carbohydrate grams of fat grams of
protein in a lasagna and then they
microwaved it and then they measured the
grams of carbohydrate the grams of
protein in the grams of fat and they
basically found there's very little
difference so from a macronutrient
perspective that the raw number of like
the grams of protein and stuff are
relatively the same the problem is that
it doesn't look at any of like the more
subtle things that we've learned to
detect right so it doesn't look at what
the inflammatory state of that that
lasagna is it doesn't look at
micronutrients doesn't really look at
vitamins and minerals and things like
that like like vitamin C has a half-life
of something like 12 hours so like you
know a lot of a lot of vitamins have a
very low half-life and the other really
interesting thing is that if you like if
you pick up a piece of fruit
it's cold like fruit a piece of fruit at
room temperature is gonna feel colder
than the surrounding objects and the
question is why it's because the fruit
is actually still alive right like do
you guys get that when you have a fruit
and a vegetable that that those are
still like living organisms like you can
take the bottom of like a head of
lettuce you can stick it in water and
it's gonna start to grow like if you
have a potato that's sitting in your
your closet or in your pantry net
potatoes gonna start sprouting so you
have active metabolism going on in like
fruits and vegetables and and so the the
nutritional capacity of like an orange
that's sitting on your shelf is like a
hundred percent because that vitamin C
has not started to decay because the
thing is actually alive whereas if you
have like a bottle of orange juice they
fortify it with vitamin C but then that
vitamin C is going to start decaying
because there's nothing alive in there
so I think that that the the data
actually doesn't do a great job at
supporting the view that I'm propagating
which is that you know healthy food I
mean that that reheating food negatively
impacts it but like if we just stop and
think about our human experience of
eating reheated versus freshly cooked
food it tastes wildly different so what
I wonder is like what is it that yours
your taste buds and your senses or
picking up right so there's got to be
something that they're picking up and if
you think about like you know when you
eat like a piece of really old food and
then you get an upset stomach like why
do you get an upset stomach like that's
not mental and and something in your
taste buds is warning you before you
even get the indigestion that it's like
hey man like maybe you shouldn't really
be eating this like if you eat like
freshly cooked baby back ribs that [ __ ]
is delicious and you're like I want to
eat more I want to eat more I want to
eat more whereas if you have like baby
back ribs that have been like sitting
out on the countertop for like four days
and you start to eat it your body is not
going to tell you I want more I want
more I want more right it's gonna be
like this is kind of nasty and like
maybe you shouldn't eat this so your
body is able to pick up a lot of signals
that we don't even scientifically
understand and it's it's my opinion that
those signals correlate with like
nutritious nosov food which is why
things like cooked vegetables taste
better because they have more like they
have more available nutrients so my
sense is that we're picking up on all
kinds of different like changes in the
nutrient density the nutrient quality
which cause us to enjoy cooked foods
less so I do think that
that that reheated food has less
nutritional value than freshly cooked
food and I think that that net nutrient
value isn't simply in terms of like
carbohydrates proteins fats and isn't
necessarily just in terms of vitamins as
well there's something about I don't
know how it works but like there's
something about it that just makes it
taste good and so I think you know I'm a
big fan of like meal prep Sunday because
like I think it allows you to make
healthy food choices throughout the week
so I'm not saying that you shouldn't do
meal prep Sunday because like if you
have a choice between eating like
meatballs and french fries and doing
meal prep prep Sunday and like making
yourself like three days of stir fry I
think you should go with the stir fry at
the same time you should try to eat as
much freshly cooked food as you can and
like try to portion things and then try
to use things like slow cookers and
stuff like that and and like there are a
lot of like there are a lot of really
quick things that you can make like you
can take a piece of fish sprinkle it
with salt pepper seasoning breadcrumbs
Pat it down heat up some olive oil in a
pan and you can be start-to-finish
within 25 minutes you can have like
prepared like prep the fish cook the
fish eaten the fish and wash the pot
right like you can do that so people are
asking like
it's the balance between meal prep and
eating fresh food I'd say like do what
you can so if your choice is between
eating like unhealthy food like burgers
every day right like a freshly cooked
burger I don't think is as good is like
on a daily basis as as like a stir-fry
meal prep but I'd say that if you're if
you're really like and you just have to
figure out what your own personal
threshold is and and what you like what
you you know what you want to prioritize
like how much of your time is it worth
sacrificing to eat freshly cooked food
so in my case like I try to eat
something fresh at least everyday
like usually at twice a day and it's not
that hard I think if you guys have
roommates and stuff it becomes way
easier even if you have co-workers like
I used to do this thing with my with my
med school classmates were like there
were some days and we're like like one
of us would cook for everyone so like I
would wake up and I would like make food
for like four of us and then like we'd
all have lunch together and I like have
freshly cooked food like that day and
then like the next day someone else
brings something it doesn't have to be
super like fancy like sometimes it's
just sandwiches and stuff
so I think you should just find your own
personal balance with what you have like
I think it helps if you're like I'm
married and I have two kids and my mom
lives with us so like there are three
adults that can cook freshly cooked food
every day we're really careful about
feeding my kids freshly cooked food so
we try to like really give them fresh
food every day um yeah so as someone's
asking like what if you don't like some
what if you don't like someone else's
cooking well I mean so I think you
should learn how to do things that you
don't like right so like why don't you
like it and like what's the reason for
that I mean you guys are you guys are
like you're assuming that if you don't
like your your actions are dictated by
what you like and what you don't like
well that's a shitty way to go through
life my friend if your actions are
dictated by your intentions as opposed
to what you like or dislike then you're
going to be in a far different place
if you like reheated food I'm not sure
so I think there are some foods that
improve with being like old right not
old but like so for example I think if
you if you cook a soup a lot of the
flavors will like blend like hours after
the soup is cooked and the second day
they're like they like kind of reheat
better and things like that there are
definitely cases of that but
I think that I'm not sure why your your
taste buds would prefer that
yes so the other thing is you know the
other reason why you may like reheated
food is because your taste buds have
just grown accustomed to it right so
like if you grow up eating something
like I've had some people like you know
I I hear about some people who like like
eat steak that's like well-done and
cooked like shoe leather and that's just
the way they grew up eating it so that's
how they like it and so that could have
something to do with it I mean if you
just eat a lottery heated food then
that's just how it is
[Music]
okay
something that helped me eat healthier
was prepping all my meals would you say
it's worth the effort to try and cook
more fresh foods I worry I struggle to
eat as healthy as I am now if I were to
cook yeah so I think prep is great right
so I think it's like a good idea to like
prep whatever you can ahead of time but
you can cook whole meals or you can prep
stuff and this is where you know like
for example what I was telling gizmo
today is like when you wake up in the
morning while you're making a cup of tea
or you're making your cup of coffee like
literally so this is literally just grab
a bell pepper wash it and slice it up
the process of grabbing a bell pepper
washing it and slicing it into like nine
pieces is like 60 seconds I think a lot
of people grossly misunderstood
overestimate how long it actually takes
to cook food and prepare food like
grabbing a piece of fruit washing it and
slicing it is like a 60-second endeavor
you can spend five minutes prepping
stuff and you will be amazed like you
grab a piece of fish wash it pat it down
sprinkle salt take three or four things
of seasoning sprinkle it on there and
then you're done that that whole process
is like 90 seconds yeah so I think this
is also where there's this beautiful
thing called YouTube and on YouTube
sometimes there are people on there it's
[ __ ] weird there's just like people
who have like cooking experience and
they just show you how to like prep
things and they show you how to like
slice and it's like really easy like if
you're if you're I don't know how to
describe this but if you're having
trouble with the seeds in a bell pepper
you need to like if this is the bell
pepper you need to cut down from the top
right so you just cut you make four
slices you pull off the top and that's
all the seeds and then you're done
like there's no bother with the seeds
the other thing if you have trouble with
with seeds and a bell peppers you wash
it after you cut it all those things
just come out you're done easy